---
layout: page
title: Frequently asked questions
permalink: /faq/
---

{% include faq-question.html question="Why should I use xpm?" %}

When Xcode projects and teams grow, the maintenance becomes cumbersome, and developers spend quite a lot of time fighting issues. Some example of those issues are compilation failing because frameworks are not found, the linker complaining because the framework we are linking against is incompatible. xpm helps you overcome most of those issues by abstracting you away from certain knowledge that Xcode expects your developers to have. With xpm, **your developers can be focused on building the app, rather than setting up the environment and project properly to get Xcode happy about it**.

{% include faq-question.html question="What if xpm is not supported in the future?" %}

Not supporting xpm in the future is as likely as Facebook not supporting React. Many things can happen and we can't make sure xpm exists forever. For that reason, we have designed xpm API in such way that your projects **depend weakly on it**. Your team is responsible for defining how the project should look, and xpm takes that input, and generates an Xcode project that follows standard conventions. In case of xpm not being maintained anymore, the generated project is a valid and standard project, which you can include in the git repository.

{% include faq-question.html question="How does xpm overlap with spm?" %}

Swift Package Manager (spm) is the official tool from Apple for managing Swift packages. Although spm and xpm have a similar design, their goal is different. The Swift Package Manager aims to facilitate the definition and usage of Swift packages, while xpm facilitates the definition of projects _(e.g. iOS apps projects)_ and the interactions with them. Developers continue to ask Apple for some integration with existing Xcode projects so you might expect some overlapping in the future.

{% include faq-question.html question="Can I use it with Fastlane?" %}

Definitively. Although xpm provides CLI commands such as a build and test, you can use Fastlane's gym and scan actions, or your own automation logic. You can work with the project that xpm generates as if it was a project generated by Xcode, nothing changes.

{% include faq-question.html question="Why are the manifests in Swift?" %}

First and foremost, because the manifest files like `Project.swift` or `Workspace.swift` can be edited with Xcode, which helps the developers validate the syntax using the Swift type system. It also prevents developers from tweaking xpm in any way. This might change in the future, and there'll be support for hooks where developers will have the flexibility to define custom actions.

{% include faq-question.html question="Can my targets depend on external dependencies?" %}

They can, but there's no dependency management built in xpm. Depending on how your project manages external dependencies, the integration process changes:

- [Carthage](https://github.com/carthage/carthage): Since it generates precompiled framework, you can set your target up to depend on that framework. xpm will set up the build settings and build phases for you.
- [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org): The project manifest model doesn't support adding a CocoaPods dependency but you can call `pod install` after the project has been generated with xpm. We have plans to improve this having support for it from the manifest.
- [Swift Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/): Unfortunately, there's no support for integrating your projects with spm dependencies. We are waiting for Apple to do some work on that area to add the integration into xpm.

{% include faq-question.html question="I love this project, how can I contribute?" %}

You are welcome to contribute. Contributors bring fresh ideas and new points of view to the project. Here are some examples of contributions:

- **Open an issue:** It can be an idea, a bug that you have found. Don't hesitate to do so. For instance, you can easily do it from tuist by running `tuist create-issue`. It'll open the browser with the issue form to fill it out.
- **Open a PR:** If you'd like to get your hands dirty, pick an issue and work on it. Issues for beginners are labelled on GitHub and can be a good starting point to get familiar with the project. After your first contribution gets merged you'll be come part of the contributors team.
- **Participate on Spectrum discussions:** We have an [open community]({{site.urls.spectrum}}) on Spectrum where contributors have discussions around different topics. Show up and participate in them!
